# dinova_control

## Requirements
1. Install Kinova python-API:
https://github.com/Kinovarobotics/kortex/blob/master/api_python/examples/readme.md


## Control modes for kinova
The default control mode is `High Level Velocity`. If you want to change the control modes, you need to call rosservices:
1. `<robot_name>/kinova/change_to_HLC_position` - The mode is switched to HLC position control and the `/kinova/command` topic expects desired joint positions
2. `<robot_name>/kinova/change_to_HLC_velocity` - The mode is switched to HLC position control and the `/kinova/command` topic expects desired joint velocities
3. `<robot_name>/kinova/change_to_LLC_position` - The mode is switched to LLC position control and the `/kinova/command` topic expects desired joint positions `NOT RECOMMENDED YET`
4. `<robot_name>/kinova/change_to_LLC_velocity` - The mode is switched to LLC position control and the `/kinova/command` topic expects desired joint velocities. `NOT RECOMMENDED YET`
Possible robot_names in the MRL are "dingo1" and "dingo2". 

## Important topics
Topics:
1. `<robot_name>/kinova/command` - Topic for controlling kinova's joints
2. `<robot_name>/cmd_vel` - Topic for controlling omnibase's velocities
3. `<robot_name>/kinova/error_ack` - Topic for acknowledging faults
4. `<robot_name>/kinova/joint_states` - Topic for subscribing the actual state of the robot in [rad, rad/s, Nm]
5. `<robot_name>/dinova/joint_states` - Topic for subscribing the actual state of dinova [wheels, q]. This is mainly use for RViz, tf, ...
6. `<robot_name>/dinova/omni_states` - Topic for subscribing the actual state of dinova [x, y, theta, q]. The omnibase pose is received from odometry.
7. `<robot_name>/dinova/omni_states_vicon` - Topic for subscribing the actual state of dinova [x, y, theta, q]. The omnibase pose is received from vicon.
8. `<robot_name>/dinova/dinova/fk_links` - Topic for subscribing to the poses of all links computed through forward kinematics.. The message type is `derived_object_msgs/ObjectArray`.
9. `<robot_name>/dinova/dinova/fk_endeffector` - Topic for subscribing to the end-effector pose computed through forward kinematics. The message type is `geometry_msgs/PoseStamped`.

Possible robot_names in the MRL are "dingo1" and "dingo2". 


## Useful services:
1. `rosservice call <robot_name>/kinova/go_zero_position` - Move an arm to zero joint position
2. `rosservice call <robot_name>/kinova/go_home_position` - Move an arm to home joint position
3. `rosservice call <robot_name>/kinova/gripper/open` - Open gripper
4. `rosservice call <robot_name>/kinova/gripper/close` - Close gripper
Possible robot_names in the MRL are "dingo1" and "dingo2". 

## Forward kinematics
To unify the Dinova model required for forward kinematics, we added the model to the `config/` folder. To speed up computation, we use autogenerated code for calculating forward kinematics. The autogenerated files are stored in the `src/autogen folder`. If you need to modify the model, feel free to do so in the URDF file in the `config/` folder, but be sure to regenerate the forward kinematics code by running:
```bash
roslaunch dinova_control dinova_generate_fk.launch lidar:=false/true
```
and recompiling the package.



> :warning: Please note that the topics for forward kinematics are only published when using Vicon. These topics will not be available until odometry is fixed.
